Philo is a prototype system that supports
authoring and sharing dashboard snapshots
on collaboration platforms.
This video describes a sales department of
an organization and its regional teams.
There are three main collaboration platform
channels and six characters for this video
demo.
The sales-regional-reps channel is for communication
between the headquarter’s sales department
and regional teams.
Chris and Jamie are members of this channel.
Jamie is a data scientist, and Chris is a
national sales manager.
Jamie reports to Chris.
The sales-us-west channel is for the US WEST
regional sales team.
Alice, Brian, and Laura are members of this
channel.
Alice is the sales representative for U.S.
West.
Brian and Laura are regional sales managers,
and they report to Alice.
The sales-us-east channel is for the US EAST
regional sales team.
Paul, the sales representative for U.S. East,
is a member of this channel.
Alice and Paul, as regional representatives,
subscribe to the sales-regional-reps channel.
This story starts from the collaboration platform
of this organization.
Let’s look at the chat between Chris and
Jamie in the sales-regional-reps channel.
After exploring the national sales dashboard,
Chris wants to share the last month’s sales
data with regional representatives.
So, he pings Jamie.
Jamie, the data scientist, gets this message
and responds to Chris.
Chris informs Jamie about the monthly sales
goal.
Now, let’s look at Jamie’s dashboard application.
This dashboard application is meant to emulate
Tableau Desktop, CRMA, etc.
This dashboard contains data for the sales
and profit for Jamie’s organization.
On the top row, there are seven KPI measures.
On the middle row, there are a U.S. map for
profit ratio
and a table for sales and profit by region.
On the bottom row, there are monthly data
by segment and category.
Jamie wants to include the sales measure in
the snapshot,
so she clicks the snapshot button from the
relevant cell.
This opens a component authoring interface.
Jamie first sets the time frame of this snapshot
component.
Then, she sets the time range or interval
as 1 month and the start date as March 1st,
2022.
As this component will be shared with the
regional representatives, Jamie wants to add
a breakdown for the regions.
Because Chris told her about the sales goal,
she chooses a template that can include it.
This template also generates a short text
message for the data.
This template allows Jamie to enter the goal
value and the name of the goal.
In the same way, Jamie creates a snapshot
component for the Profit measure for March
2022, with the region breakdown using a simple
bar template.
Jamie wants to include a map in the snapshot,
so she clicks the snapshot button for the
map.
Jamie sets the same timeframe.
In this case, the breakdown for States has
been already loaded.
Jamie finds out that there are missing data
points in some states.
Thus, she adds a caption and annotation for
those parts to call out an action to those
responsible.
Jamie remembered that people often ask her
for per-category views,
So, Jamie adds an interactive filter by product
category to save her time.
Going back to the dashboard application,
Jamie sees her snapshot components are listed
in the snapshot panel.
To compose the components Jamie has created,
she clicks the “compose and export” button
in the snapshot panel.
This opens the snapshot composing and exporting
interface.
Jamie chooses a carousel layout to avoid a
lengthy post
Then, Jamie sets a channel to export the snapshot,
and she allows others to share the snapshot
in different channels so that the sales representatives
can share with their teammates.
Jamie also sets the freshness of her snapshot.
To do so, she infers the freshness from the
components, and sets the exact date based
on that.
She also allows others to retrieve an updated
version of this snapshot.
As she has found that there are some missing
points, she marks the dataset as incomplete.
Then, Jamie adds a short message along with
the snapshot.
Lastly she clicks the export button, and confirms
it.
Chris, Jamie’s manager, sees the snapshot
in the sales-regional-reps channel.
This collaboration platform is meant to emulate
applications like Slack and Teams.
Chris quickly browses the snapshot.
About a month later, the snapshots are no
longer fresh.
Chris is also curious about the new data,
so he goes to the sales-regional-reps channel.
Chris discovers the overall sales snapshot
is indicated no longer fresh, so he retrieves
a new one.
Jamie, as the owner of the snapshots, checks
My Snapshot Home to see how much her snapshots
get spread.
She checks who has seen the snapshot, and
finds Paul, the East region representative,
has not seen the snapshot yet.
So, Jamie goes to the sales-regional-reps
channel,
And pings Paul to see the snapshot.
Once getting the notification, Paul goes to
the sales-regional-reps channel using his
mobile device.
Paul then checks the snapshot and confirms
it to Jamie.
This is the end of the story.
To summarize, Philo supports creating dashboard
snapshots, sharing them on a collaboration
platform, and finding telemetry information.